Release notes 2024.9 (#34575)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2024-09-04-release-20249.markdown

<lite-youtube videoid="dSbCzRhbOVA" videotitle="Home Assistant 2024.9 Release Party"></lite-youtube>

Home Assistant 2024.9! 🎉

> For many of us in the community based in the northern hemisphere we've been taking advantage of the nicer weather to take a little time off. Home Assistant releases have continued to grow for some time, and this one might not be as gargantuan in size as previous releases, but it still packs some really cool features and announcements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many community members based in the northern hemisphere have taken advantage of the nicer weather to take a little time off. Home Assistant releases have continued to grow for some time, and this one might not be as gargantuan in size as previous releases, but it still packs some really cool features and announcements.
```

When switching to smaller screens, these larger sections will revert to one section wide (if this causes issues for certain big cards, we would recommend using our device [visibility settings](/blog/2024/06/05/release-20246/#control-visibility-of-cards)).

<img src="/images/blog/2024-09/section-settings.png" alt="Screenshot of the section settings">

### Full span cards

Larger sections mean larger cards. Instead of just stretching out the layout of a card, there is also a new option on cards to have them always use the full width of the section.

### Badges

Talking about dashboards, the newly styled badges we [introduced](/blog/2024/08/07/release-20248/#new-badges-for-your-dashboard) in last release, are now more configurable.

> Instead of a display mode, you can decide yourself what element you want to show. This allows you for example to hide the icon of an badge and only show the state of the device you want to show in your badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of using display mode, you can decide for yourself what element you want to show. This allows you, for example, to hide the icon and only show the state of the device in your badge.
```

<img src="/images/blog/2024-09/untracked-energy.png" alt="Screenshot of the individual device energy graph">

We can't all have energy tracking for every device, and if you have whole-home energy tracking (like a smart meter or [something more DIY](/home-energy-management)) the updated graph will calculate the difference and show your home's untracked usage. So hop onto your [energy dashboard](https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/energy/) and start to tackle your phantom energy load.

## LLM agent options grow

When we added the ability to use [Large Language Models (LLMs)](/blog/2024/06/05/release-20246/#dipping-our-toes-in-the-world-of-ai-using-llms) in our Voice Assistant, it began with a limited number of conversation agents. These included the cloud-based  [OpenAI](/components/openai_conversation/) and [Google AI](/components/google_generative_ai_conversation/) integrations, along with the locally-run [Ollama](/integrations/ollama/) integration. All three can now control the devices in your home.

> [@Shulyaka](https://github.com/Shulyaka) has now added another cloud option with [Anthropic](/integrations/anthropic) - thanks again for giving us another option for experimenting with AI in Home Assistant. Setting it up can be a little different than other conversation agents so take a look at the [documentation](/integrations/anthropic) if you're interested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@Shulyaka](https://github.com/Shulyaka) has now added another cloud option with [Anthropic](/integrations/anthropic) - thanks again for giving us another option for experimenting with AI in Home Assistant. Setting it up can be a little different than other conversation agents, so take a look at the [documentation](/integrations/anthropic).
```

  Manage SMLIGHT SLZB-06 adaptors from Home Assistant.
- **[Roth Touchline SL]**, added by [@jnsgruk]<br>
  A new integration for the Roth Touchline SL underfloor heating system.
- **[Yale]**, added by [@bdraco]<br>

>   The Yale Home brand now has it's own integration and will not longer be using the [August] integration. If you use a Yale Home device with the August integration, you should migrate to the new Yale integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The Yale Home brand now has its own integration and will no longer be using the [August] integration. If you use a Yale Home device with the August integration, you should migrate to the new Yale integration.
```

integrations are also being constantly improved. Here are some of the noteworthy
changes to existing integrations:

- The Mosquitto MQTT broker add-on can now be installed and started automatically when you setup [MQTT](/integrations/mqtt). Great work [@jbouwh]!
- In the [UI for KNX that was introduced last release](/blog/2024/08/07/release-20248/#knx-can-now-be-managed-via-the-ui), you can now also add switch and light entities! Thanks [@farmio]!

> - [@allenporter] added event entities to the [Nest](integrations/nest) integation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [@allenporter] added event entities to the [Nest](integrations/nest) integration.
```

We always make sure to document these changes to make the transition as easy as
possible for you. This release has the following backward-incompatible changes:

{% details "Recorder database upgrade notice" %}

This notice applies only if you use the recorder integration with a MySQL or
PostgreSQL database. If you are using the default SQLite database,
you can ignore it.

Last release included a database upgrade/migration that increases the size of
the number we can store for the identifier fields.

> Not all migrations where successful despite being marked as successful. This 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not all migrations were successful despite being marked as successful. This 
```

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Asterisk Call Detail Records" %}

Asterisk Call Detail Records has been deprecated in 2024.3.0 and has now been removed.

It was using a deprecated mailbox feature that is no longer available.

([@joostlek] - [#123180])

[#123180]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123180

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Asterisk Voicemail" %}

Asterisk Voicemail has been deprecated in 2024.3.0 and has now been removed.

It was using a deprecated mailbox feature that is no longer available.

([@joostlek] - [#123180])

[#123180]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123180

{% enddetails %}

{% details "August" %}

If you are using a Yale Home device with the [August] integration, you should migrate to the new [Yale] integration.

Yale Home devices will soon stop working with the August integration.

([@bdraco] - [#124895]) ([august documentation](/integrations/august) - [yale documentation](/integrations/yale))

[#124895]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124895

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Ecovacs" %}

The YAML configuration for the Ecovacs integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

> The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed your YAML configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.
```

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123605] ([documentation](/integrations/ecovacs))

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[#123605]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123605

{% enddetails %}

{% details "GPSD" %}

The YAML configuration for the GPSD integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

> The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed your YAML configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.
```

[#123725]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123725

{% enddetails %}

{% details "KNX" %}

The KNX Climate preset modes are renamed to match the KNX specifications.

| KNX specifications  | Previous | Now            |
|---------------------|----------|----------------|
| Auto | none | auto                              |
| Comfort | comfort | comfort                     |
| Standby | away |  standby                       |
| Economy | sleep | economy                       |
| Building protection | eco | building_protection |

[@farmio] - [#123964] ([documentation](/integrations/knx))

[@farmio]: http://gtihub.com/farmio
[#123964]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123964

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Logi circle" %}

Logitech stopped accepting applications for access to the Logi Circle API in May 2022, and the Logi Circle integration has now been removed.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123727]

[#123727]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123727

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Lupusec" %}

The YAML configuration for the Lupusec integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

> The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed your YAML configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.
```

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Lutron" %}

In Home Assistant 2024.2 fans where converted from a light entity to a fan entity. 
The old light entities will no longer work in this release and can be removed.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123607] ([documentation](/integrations/lutron))

[#123607]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123607

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Mailbox" %}

The Mailbox platform that was previously deprecated has been removed.
 
 [@gjohansson-ST] - [#123741]

[#123741]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123741

{% enddetails %}

{% details "MQTT" %}

The schema option was removed from the MQTT vacuum schema in Home Assistant 2024.2. You should remove this from your YAML configuration if set.

Manual configured MQTT vacuum entities will break if the schema option is still configured.
When using MQTT discovery the option will be silently ignored.

[@jbouwh] - [#124722] ([documentation](/integrations/mqtt))

[@jbouwh]: https://github.com/jbouwh
[#124722]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124722

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Overkiz" %}
 
 Atlantic CozyTouch Water Heaters will now show the Manual operation mode as Electric.

>  A binary sensor was added to indicate if the manual mode is action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 A binary sensor was added to indicate if the manual mode is activated.
```

{% details "System monitor" %}

Removes the deprecated process sensor from the System Monitor integration.
This sensor has been provided as a binary sensor for 6 months raising a repair issue.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123616] ([documentation](/integrations/systemmonitor))

[#123616]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123616

{% enddetails %}

{% details "TP-Link Smart Home" %}

The binary sensor for "Update available" will no longer be provided by the TP-Link Smart Home integration.

It will be replaced in a subsequent release with the Update entity but is disabled for now due to stability issues when calling the TP Link cloud API to check the latest firmware version. This may cause devices to go offline and power cycled to function again. The sensor was also unreliable and may have returned incorrect data because of rate limiting from the TP Link cloud.

[@sdb9696] - [#124930] ([documentation](/integrations/tplink))

[@sdb9696]: https://github.com/sdb9696
[#124930]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124930

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Velux" %}

The YAML configuration for the Velux integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

> The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed your YAML configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.
```

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123724] ([documentation](/integrations/velux))

[#123724]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123724

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Zigbee Home Automation" %}

- The IKEA Starkvind fan modes have been updated. Automations that used to set the fan to 10% speed to switch it to "auto mode" should now be updated to set the preset to "auto."
In auto mode, the actual fan speed is now properly displayed.

  For more information, see the [PR in the ZHA repo](https://github.com/zigpy/zha/pull/87). 

> - Firmware update entity logic has changed. A device will only be considered "up-to-date" if there is a known firmware update for it and the current firmware version is greater. If there is no known firmware update, the device firmware state will be considered "unknown", as we can't tell if it's up to date or not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The firmware update entity logic has changed. A device will only be considered "up-to-date" if there is a known firmware update for it and the current firmware version is greater than the firmware update version. If there is no known firmware update, the device firmware state will be considered "unknown", as we can't tell if it's up to date or not.
```

The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#123725]) ([documentation](/integrations/gpsd))

[#123725]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123725

{% enddetails %}

{% details "KNX" %}

The KNX Climate preset modes are renamed to match the KNX specifications.

| KNX specifications  | Previous | Now            |
|---------------------|----------|----------------|
| Auto | none | auto                              |
| Comfort | comfort | comfort                     |
| Standby | away |  standby                       |
| Economy | sleep | economy                       |
| Building protection | eco | building_protection |

[@farmio] - [#123964] ([documentation](/integrations/knx))

[@farmio]: http://gtihub.com/farmio
[#123964]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123964

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Logi circle" %}

Logitech stopped accepting applications for access to the Logi Circle API in May 2022, and the Logi Circle integration has now been removed.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123727]

[#123727]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123727

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Lupusec" %}

> The YAML configuration for the Lupusec integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration for the Lupusec integration was removed. The configuration has been moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2.
```

The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123606] ([documentation](/integrations/lupusec))

[#123606]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123606

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Lutron" %}

> In Home Assistant 2024.2 fans where converted from a light entity to a fan entity. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Home Assistant 2024.2, fans where converted from a light entity to a fan entity. 
```

 
 [@gjohansson-ST] - [#123741]

[#123741]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123741

{% enddetails %}

{% details "MQTT" %}

The schema option was removed from the MQTT vacuum schema in Home Assistant 2024.2. You should remove this from your YAML configuration if set.

Manual configured MQTT vacuum entities will break if the schema option is still configured.
When using MQTT discovery the option will be silently ignored.

[@jbouwh] - [#124722] ([documentation](/integrations/mqtt))

[@jbouwh]: https://github.com/jbouwh
[#124722]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124722

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Overkiz" %}
 
 Atlantic CozyTouch Water Heaters will now show the Manual operation mode as Electric.

 A binary sensor was added to indicate if the manual mode is activated.

 Users that have automations or scripts using these entities together with the Manual mode should update the automations or scripts accordingly.

[@ALERTua] - [#124619] ([documentation](/integrations/overkiz))

[@ALERTua]: https://github.com/ALERTua
[#124619]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124619

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Proximity" %}

> In [2024.2 we introduced new sensor entities](/blog/2024/02/07/release-20242/#revamped-proximity-integration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2024.2, [we introduced new sensor entities](/blog/2024/02/07/release-20242/#revamped-proximity-integration)
```

to the [Proximity](/integrations/proximity) {% term integration %} and therefore deprecated the `proximity` entity.

Now this deprecated `proximity` entity has been removed.

([@mib1185] - [#123158]) ([documentation](/integrations/proximity))

[@mib1185]: https://github.com/mib1185
[#123158]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123158

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Sensibo" %}

> The previous PM2.5 sensor for Pure devices was incorrectly reporting a PM2.5 value, but it's actually a number representing an AQI level. The sensor will now provide the new states of 'good', 'moderate' and 'bad'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous PM2.5 sensor for Pure devices was incorrectly reporting a PM2.5 value, but it's actually a number representing an AQI level. The sensor will now provide the new states of 'good', 'moderate', and 'bad'.
```

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#124151] ([documentation](/integrations/sensibo))

[#124151]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124151

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Starline" %}

The horn switch has been deprecated since 2024.1 and is now removed.

> Instead of switch a horn button entity was added. Please update your automations accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of a switch a horn button entity was added. Please update your automations accordingly.
```
a horn button?

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#123608]) ([documentation](/integrations/starline))

[#123608]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123608

{% enddetails %}

{% details "System monitor" %}

Removes the deprecated process sensor from the System Monitor integration.

> This sensor has been provided as a binary sensor for 6 months raising a repair issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sensor has been provided as a binary sensor for 6 months, raising a repair issue.
```

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123616] ([documentation](/integrations/systemmonitor))

[#123616]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123616

{% enddetails %}

{% details "TP-Link Smart Home" %}

The binary sensor for "Update available" will no longer be provided by the TP-Link Smart Home integration.

> It will be replaced in a subsequent release with the Update entity but is disabled for now due to stability issues when calling the TP Link cloud API to check the latest firmware version. This may cause devices to go offline and power cycled to function again. The sensor was also unreliable and may have returned incorrect data because of rate limiting from the TP Link cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will be replaced in a subsequent release with the Update entity but is disabled for now due to stability issues when calling the TP-Link cloud API to check the latest firmware version. This may cause devices to go offline. They need to be power-cycled to function again. The sensor was also unreliable and may have returned incorrect data because of rate limiting from the TP-Link cloud.
```

[@sdb9696] - [#124930] ([documentation](/integrations/tplink))

[@sdb9696]: https://github.com/sdb9696
[#124930]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/124930

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Velux" %}

> The YAML configuration for the Velux integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The YAML configuration for the Velux integration that was moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2 has been removed.
```
```suggestion
The YAML configuration for the Velux integration was removed. It has been moved to the UI in Home Assistant 2024.2.
```

The YAML configuration was automatically imported and should be removed from your YAML configuration.

[@gjohansson-ST] - [#123724] ([documentation](/integrations/velux))

[#123724]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/123724

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Zigbee Home Automation" %}

> - The IKEA Starkvind fan modes have been updated. Automations that used to set the fan to 10% speed to switch it to "auto mode" should now be updated to set the preset to "auto."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The IKEA Starkvind fan modes have been updated. Automations that used to set the fan to 10% speed to switch it to "auto mode", should now be updated to set the preset to "auto."
```

In auto mode, the actual fan speed is now properly displayed.

  For more information, see the [PR in the ZHA repo](https://github.com/zigpy/zha/pull/87). 

- The firmware update entity logic has changed. A device will only be considered "up-to-date" if there is a known firmware update for it and the current firmware version is greater than the firmware update version. If there is no known firmware update, the device firmware state will be considered "unknown", as we can't tell if it's up to date or not.

> Previously we showed "up-to-date" if there was no known firmware which misrepresented the state for many devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, we showed "up-to-date" if there was no known firmware which misrepresented the state for many devices.
```
